#summary KoL.pm

= Introduction =

This is the main module for the [KoLAPI KoLAPI]. It's purpose is to hold configuration and status information that is general to the API in general.

The end user of [KoLAPI KoLAPI] should not need to directly use this module.

* [PerlKoL#exported Exported Functions]
  * [PerlKoL#calledFrom calledFrom()]
  * [PerlKoL#promptUser promptUser()]
* [PerlKoL#object Object]
  * [PerlKoL#methods Methods]
    * [PerlKoL#new new()]
    * [PerlKoL#version version()]
    * [PerlKoL#hosts hosts()]
    * [PerlKoL#dirty dirty()]
    * [PerlKoL#makeDirty makeDirty()]

=Exported Functions=

These functions are not directly connected to the [PerlKoL KoL] object.

===calledFrom($levels)===
This function generates a string representation of the calling function/method a number of levels back as specified by the _$levels_ value. The _$levels_ default value is 2 if not specified which is the caller of the function calling _calledFrom()_.

*Example return value:*

{{{main(main::testLogging)}}}

===promptUser($prompt, $type, $default)===
This function interacts with the user via the TTY interface. It prompts the user with the _$prompt_ value, then verifies the supplied value against the _$type_ specified. If the response does not match the type, it will re-prompt them. If they supply no value (e.g. press enter) and a _$default_ value is supplied, the _$default_ value is returned. If there is an error, it returns _undef_ and sets _$@_.

*_$type_ values*:
|| *value* || *regex* || *Notes* ||
|| bool || `^[01YyTtNnFf]` || Boolean values ||
|| boolean || || See bool ||
|| int || `^-{0,1}\d+$` || Numeric (no decimals) values ||
|| integer || || See int ||
|| num || || See int ||
|| number || || See int ||
|| string || `.*` || String value (including empty string) ||
|| password || `.*` || Same as string, except that it turns echo off on the TTY when getting the answer from the user. ||

*Examples:*
{{{
print promptUser("Give me a int value:", 'int') . "\n";
print promptUser("Give me a bool value:", 'bool', 0) . "\n";
print promptUser("Give me a string value:", 'string', "you didn't give me a string") . "\n";
print promptUser("Give me a password value:", 'password') . "\n";
}}}