#summary KoL::Outfits module
#sidebar PerlTOC

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

This module manages your outfits.

==Methods==
===new(%args)===
This is the constructor of the object and simply sets up the data storage.

The [PerlKoLSession KoL::Session] instance for the character you are working with is required in the _%args_ hash using the 'session' key.

If there is an error, _undef_ is returned and _$@_ is set.

*Example:*
{{{
my $out = KoL::Outfits->new('session' => $sess);
}}}

===normal()===
Returns an array reference containing the names of all your normal (e.g. tatto worthy) outfits.

In the event of an error, _undef_ is returned and _$@_ is set.

*Example:*
{{{
my $norm = $out->normal();
if ($@) {
    print "Unable to get normal outfits: $@\n";
} else {
    foreach my $name (sort(@{$norm})) {
        print "$name\n";
    }
}
}}}

===custom()===
Returns an array reference containing the names of all your custom outfits.

In the event of an error, _undef_ is returned and _$@_ is set.

*Example:*
{{{
my $cust = $out->custom();
if ($@) {
    print "Unable to get custom outfits: $@\n";
} else {
    foreach my $name (sort(@{$cust})) {
        print "$name\n";
    }
}
}}}

===saveOutfit($name)===
This creates a new outfit out of your current equipment with _$name_ as it's name. Unlike KoL itself, this method will not let you reuse the same name for more than one outfit.

Returns 1 on success or 0 on error and sets _$@_.

*Example:*
{{{
if (!$out->saveOutfit('My new outfit')) {
    print "Unable to save outfit: $@\n";
    exit(1);
}
}}}

===wearNormal($name)===
===wearCustom($name)===
Changes your current equipment to the given outfit.

Returns 1 on success and 0 on error. If there is an error, _$@_ is set. If you are already wearing the outfit, 1 is still returned but _$@_ is still set.

*Example:*
{{{
if (!$out->wearCustom('My new outfit')) {
    print "Unable change outfits: $@\n";
    exit(1);
}
}}}

===wearPrevious()===
Switches your outfit to the last set of equipment you were wearing.

Returns 1 on success or 0 on error and sets _$@_.

*Example:*
{{{
if (!$out->wearPrevious()) {
    print "Unable to switch to previous outfit: $@\n";
    exit(1);
}
}}}

===unequipAll()===
Unequips everything.

Returns 1 on success or 0 on error and sets _$@_.

*Example:*
{{{
if (!$out->unequipAll()) {
    print "Unable to go naked, which is probably a good thing...: $@\n";
    exit(1);
}
}}}

===changeName($old, $new)===
Changes the name of _$old_ outfit to _$new_.

Returns 1 on success or 0 on error and sets _$@_.

*Example:*
{{{
if (!$out->changeName('My new outfit', 'My newer outfit')) {
    print "Unable to rename outfit: $@\n";
    exit(1);
}
}}}

===deleteOutfit($name)===
Deletes _$name_ outfit.

Returns 1 on success or 0 on error and sets _$@_.

*Example:*
{{{
if (!$out->deleteOutfit('My newer outfit')) {
    print "Unable to delete outfit: $@\n";
    exit(1);
}
}}}
